Vaping is harmful to your mental and physical health.
Nicotine, the addictive ingredient found
in traditional cigarettes
is commonly found in vapes as well.
When inhaling the aerosolized vape juice
the nicotine reaches your brain within 10 seconds
and triggers a big release of dopamine.
Dopamine is one of the chemicals in your brain
that makes you feel calm and happy.
Our brain naturally releases dopamine
to reward us when we do something that helps us survive.
This surge of dopamine released from nicotine
rewires how the brain works.
Once your brain is rewired,
it tells you to constantly chase that
original peak of dopamine.
No matter how much nicotine is used
your brain will never reach that high again.
Instead, your dopamine levels sink.
Your brain sends signals telling you NEED the nicotine
a craving feeling and an addiction is developed.
Vaping to reduce stress becomes the
very source of stress the minute
the addiction takes control of your life.
In addition to nicotine,
Vape juices usually contain
harmful preservatives and chemicals.
Our lungs are designed to breathe air.
Breathing aerosolized vape juice including
"just flavors" or others claiming
to have health benefits.
Exposes the lungs to chemicals they're not
meant to breathe.
Some vapes contain toxic chemicals
and known carcinogens like formaldehyde,
acrolein and arsenic.
Others may contain harmful metals
such as nickel, lead and aluminum.
Which may cause irreversible lung damage.
Inside your lungs are
tiny balloon-shaped sacs called Alveoli.
The alveoli are where oxygen enters your
body and is exchanged for carbon dioxide.
Surfactant is a fluid inside the alveoli
that helps keep the balloon-shape from collapsing.
We now know that vaping damages
the alveoli and effects surfactant.
Damaged alveoli leads to
reduced lung function and breathing issues.
The most effective way to avoid addiction
is to never start vaping in the first place.
If you do vape, quitting can be hard
but not impossible.
Living smoke and vape free
is one of the best ways you can protect your health.